Take a car
Take a boat
Take a plane
Walk
You look at the map you have and realize you are much too far to use a car, not to mention there are no roads in some areas
You do not know of any cost effective ways to cover the long distance with a boat, but imagine you will find a boat closer to your destination for the last leg.
A plane is the best option to start, you will likely need to find someone to take you closer afterward, but getting within 50 miles is a good start. 
You laugh to yourself and go back to thinking of a more reasonable option.
Mount the round stone on the thick stick.
Try to push the stick in further
Try and rotate the stick
Try to pull the stick out
The round stone goes in after some struggle and whittling of the stick. You put another stick in the whole on the round stone,s edge, and begin to crank the mechanism. You hear a steady hum as the mechanism as it builds up energy and you see the massive boulders nearby begin to rotate slowly. The carving glows as though energy is going through the branch.
You hear some creaking and some crunching as the stick breaks on the other end. Try again.
The stick spins somewhat, but it's tough to move. You need to think of a better way.
The stick will not budge at all.
Try to dig through the one that's caved in
Try to enter the one covered in thick overgrowth.
Enter the one that is partially flooded.
Follow the ants marching into the 4th entrance.
You begin digging with your hands, trying to clear the rubble, but soon get tired.
You begin trampling through the bushes and cutting the vines, and it's not long before you are surrounded by a swarm of bees that drive you away.
You walk until you are wading in waist deep water. It's pitch black, but you are pretty sure the entrance is fully flooded, and you are too encumbered to dive through to the other side.
You walk along with the ants, avoiding stepping on them. There are a lot of them in the passageway, marching steadily with the food they are bringing to the colony.
Try and breathe in the mist
Cover your face as best as you can and make your way forward, stepping on as few pressure plates as you can. 
Try and press as many plates as you can while staying back.
Try and press the plates in a pattern that mimics a dance you saw in the book you read earlier.
You cough violently as the foul mist fills your lungs and eyes. It's unpleasant, but not fatal. You still wish you had not done that, and it takes you a few minutes to recover.
The mist sprays from some of the entrances, but not in a large quantity. As you go further, you notice the mist being dispensed is not as heavy, and you feel more at ease as you continue down the hallway with long and fast strides.
You hear the hissing increase as more of the mist is released. You see a light coming from the other end of the hallway, and quickly duck behind a wall as a fireball bounces down the hallway toward you, consuming the mist and roaring as it exits the archway you were just at. 
You hear the hissing increase as more of the mist is released. You are so focused on the dance, you don't notice the light coming from the tunnel, and do not see the massive fireball consuming the mist and coming toward you until it's too late. You are burnt to a crisp, but it was a performance of the dance, though. Try again.
Tap the obsidian with the crystal.
Put the crystal in the socket again.
Copy the movements on the screen
Try the dance you saw in the book
The image flickers, but nothing else happens
Nothing at all happens.
You start to move along with the humanoid figures, and plan ahead to make sure you can smoothly from step to step.
The images shut off and the room locks itself permanently. Try again.
Turn around and go back
Try and climb the vines to reach the door.
Try and climb the rubble to reach the door.
Keep looking around.
You notice the doorway has closed behind you, and there seems no way to open it from this side. You must continue if you want to get out
The vines snap under the combined weight of you and your gear. You land safely on your feet, and go back to looking around.
You climb one of the small platforms, and look around for a path. You jump to another barely 4 feet off the ground, and realize you are not particularly comfortable going much higher, nor can you determine a clear path
You go back to the vines, and one of them suddenly perks up and sticks to your forehead. You feel a tingling as your arms and legs suddenly start moving on their own, You climb onto one of the lower platforms, and begin making your way from platform to pillar, to outcropping on the wall, carefully heading toward the door. The vine stretches to keep up with you, the connection still active. You toss your gear ahead of you for the final jump, before making it to the door.
Stand near the door you entered
Stand near the bumpy door
Stand near the statue
Grab the statue,s hand
The darkness descends from the ceiling and consumes you. Try again.
The area near the bumpy door gives away to an infinite fall where you cannot feel anything except the wind rushing by you. Try again.
The room darkens, with only the statue visible now. It's scowling, Try again.
The hand is rough. You realize what it means, and make a dive toward the rough door, just in time to see darkness consume the rest of the room. You are safe, and the door in front of you swings open, inviting you to the next room.
Step away from the wall
Toss a pebble at the wall
Touch the wall, moving away from that point
Look at the wall some more
You take a step back and look around the room some more, but you feel drawn back toward this wall.
The pebble leaves your hand and sails through the air. It seems to blend in with the patterns, and you never hear it hit the wall or the ground.
You feel along the wall, being careful to notice any difference with your fingers. You find nothing, and eventually the wall feels flat and vertical, so you return to the point.
Noticing the curve, you focus on that point, looking at it closely to see what is so special about it. After a few seconds, the point seems to grow in size, and you realize you are actually looking at the room you were just in. You see the statue with its arm outstretched, and the rest of the room looks as calm as when you entered it.
Take the monkeys and store them in your backpack
Go to the wall they face and imitate the sequence
Try to look and talk to the wall
Keep looking at the monkeys
The ornament looks pretty light, but it won't budge. It's quite nice, but you imagine its supposed to stay here.
You walk up to the wall and cover your eyes, then your mouth, then clasp your hands in front of you, nothing happens.
You walk up to the wall, and look at the patterns closely, touching it to see if it's special. You compliment it on the nice patterns it has painted on it. But nothing happens.
You realize the sequence is off. There is no monkey covering its ears, no representation of the “hear no evil” part of the saying. You walk up to the wall, and turn your head so your ear is close to it. After a few seconds, you hear the faint whistling of the wind, as if there was a hole that allowed you to hear what was on the other side.
Take a seat at one of the tables
Look around the tables and chairs being careful not to touch anything
Go up to the stage
Go to the bar
You sit down at one of the tables, the scraping of your chair against the floor breaking the heavy silence in the room. You pick up the cups, glasses, plates and utensils, looking them over carefully. They seem to be normal contemporary items, with no special qualities or value. But, you soon notice something different.
You look around, being careful to not touch or break anything. You find a satchel and a hat that have been left behind on one of the chairs, as if someone got up and left in a hurry. They look like they are from 30 to 40 years ago, but they are in fine shape, with only some wear.
At the stage, you see a saxophone, a trumpet, and some other instruments there, typical of those a jazz band would use. It looks like the band left in a hurry, too fast to be able to bring their instruments, but they did set them down gently.
The bar area feels all the more quiet, as though all the air has been sucked out from the surroundings. There is a small light fixture illuminating the seats and counter, which is immaculately clean and tidy. Small, dim lights are placed on the shelf behind the bar to show off the bottles. You decide not to stick around this area too long, it feels too different from the rest of the room.
Look at the rest of the stairwell
Look at the doors you came out of
Look at the red fire box in front of you
Rest some more
You look at the fluorescent lighting and concrete stairs to your right. Never before had something so cold felt so nice and comforting. But in the back of your mind, you know something is amiss.
The doors in your left are now metal doors with a push bar in the middle. The small windows show a dark room on the other side. You don't even want to know if you could go back through them.
You look at the box. It says “Break in case of” with the last word being rubbed off. Where a fire extinguisher would be, you see a little notebook that looks almost like the one you brought with you. You take the small metal rod provided and break the glass to retrieve the notebook.
You sit down and think about your life choices.
Look around the room again
Read over your notes
Go back to sleep
Look at the computer
The room has not changed, you feel you are safe at the moment.
You read over what you have and take inventory of what you have brought and found to make sure it's all still there. When you reach the new notebook you found, you notice that the page has more writing on it.
You close your eyes, but you can't sleep any longer.
The computer is still displaying text, moving too fast to see.
Run back into the room
Prepare to fight
Run up the stairs
Run down the stairs
You are pretty sure they are headed toward you and the room, so you shouldn't go back in.
Your legs shake. You have nothing to defend yourself with, and you don't know what is headed your way.
You take a step forward, but the sound of the footsteps unnerves you. You are not sure you can confront the steps or run past them
There is only one way to go: down. You sling your backpack onto your back and begin descending the stairs as fast as you can.
Try and hide
Try the elevators
Run through the metal detectors
Go through the gaps in between the detectors.
The room is reasonably well lit and open. Nowhere to hide
The buttons make no noise and give no indication an elevator has been called.
You have a few things on you that will probably set the metal detectors off. You decide its best not to alert whatever is following you exactly where you are
You wince. You can squeeze through the gaps, but it will take some time. Its probably your best option though.
Hide
Hide
Hide
The door
The hallway is empty. What are you hiding from?
There is nothing to hide behind or in.
The footsteps are drawing closer.
You arrive at the door to see a keypad with no numbers and 9 keys, and three lights above them.
Jump
 
 
 
You jump.
 
 
 