Neurons communicate with action potential, electrical signals that travel through the axon to reach the terminal branches that convert them to chemical signals.
Neurons only use action potentials when their dendrites are stimulated enough, so their communication is all or nothing.
Action potentials begin with the dendrites of a neuron being stimulated by another neuron. If the stimulus is sufficient, positive ions will be allowed into the neuron.This will cause a change in the charge inside the ion. When the charge inside the neuron becomes smaller than around −50 millivolts, more ions will be let in. Eventually the charge becomes positive and reaches its peak, sending the signal across the axon and to the terminal branches. The branches will release neurotransmitters that will in turn stimulate other neurons.
The frontal lobe of the brain is the largest lobe and is responsible for movement, dealing with emotions, social interactions, and personality. In short, the frontal lobe controls broad movement and decision making.
The prefrontal cortex in the frontal lobe is responsible for decision making functions.
One of the sub parts of the frontal lobe is the primary motor cortex, responsible for voluntary movements.
In the brain, the parietal lobe is responsible for processing touch and feeling, which includes the primary somatosensory cortex which receives input from all over the body.
The occipital lobe is used to process visual stimuli. This part of the brain is responsible for recognizing objects, determining depth and distance, and more.
The occipital lobe consists of the primary and secondary visual cortices. The primary visual cortex uses the dorsal and ventral streams to communicate with other regions of the brain.
The dorsal stream helps with determining the location and motion of stimuli, and communicates with the parietal lobe. The ventral stream helps know the shape and specific identity of stimuli, and communicates with the temporal lobe.
The temporal lobe is responsible for processing sounds and related stimuli thanks to the primary auditory cortex.
The temporal lobe also is responsible for language comprehension, and works with other structures it has links to for further processing in its different areas.
The insular lobe is underneath the cerebral cortex, and aids in perception of the interior of our body as well as taste thanks to the primary taste cortex.
The purpose of the basal ganglia is to coordinate fine movement. The thalamus serves as a relay of most senses with the exception of smell, as well as alertness and pain. The hypothalamus regulates behaviors through hormones, as well as other aspects of the body like body temperature and blood pressure. The hippocampus is key in memory encoding and retrieval, which in turn helps to compose plans about the future. Finally, the amygdala serves as the main center of emotions, and is primarily associated with fear. These combined are referred to as the subcortical structures.
The “survival structures” get their name from being responsible for autonomic functions critical to maintaining health and well being. 
The brainstem is the lowest region of the brain, and connects with the spinal cord, used to relay signals to and from the brain. 
The pons is part of the relay system for sensations such as hearing, taste, and balance; it also regulates breathing.
The medulla oblongata controls reflexes as well as the autonomic functions that relate to blood circulation.
The reticular formation plays a role in sleep, attention, and arousal. It runs through the brainstem and has many connections throughout the whole brain.
The cerebellum supports coordination and cognition generally, including precision, balance, and accurate perception of time.